Introducing VPN technology
So...What is a VPN?
VPN stands for Virtual PRivate Network.
It’s technology
that encrypts your data when you use the Internet, scrambling it so that
strangers on the same network can’t read it.
But....How does it work?
Imagine you want to send a letter. Normally, you’d
put the letter in an envelope and mail it.
But you don’t want anyone
else to read it on the way....so what to do?
With a VPN, it’s like sending
your letter through a special, locked tunnel that only you and the person
receiving it can open.
That way, no one else can peek inside.
When should you use a VPN?
When connecting to public Wi-Fi networks like
cafes.......public parks.......or airports.
When accesing sensitive information
such as banking......or work accounts.
To bypass geographic restrictions
and access content safely.
While a VPN can increase your security, there are a few considerations you
should know.
They do not protect you against malware or viruses on your
device.
They cannot guarantee complete anonymity online.
They cannot
prevent phishing attacks or unsafe downloads.
...Even with a VPN you
still need to have good cybersecurity habits
Know that you know what a VPN is and how it works....
Consider using a
VPN to safeguard your privacy, especially on public networks....
Choose
a trusted provider....
Stay informed about online risks...
And combine
VPN use with strong security practices for the best protection....
Thanks
for going throught this minicourse on VPN...remeber to use it wisely and
stay safe whenever you're online.
You may now continue.